Reservation of Seats
Indian nationals belonging to certain categories are admitted under the seats
reserved for them in accordance with the rules prescribed by the Government of
India. The categories and the extent of reservation are as follows:
• General category candidates belonging to Economically Weaker Section
(GEN-EWS) – 10% of seats in every course. The benefit of reservation will
be given only to those General category candidates who satisfy the conditions
given in the OM No. 20013/01/2018-BC-II dated January 17, 2019 issued by
the Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment.
© JEE (Advanced) 2025 – Information Brochure
7
o The criteria for GEN-EWS will be as per the prevailing norms and/or
notifications of the Government of India.
• Other Backward Classes (OBC) candidates belonging to the Non-Creamy
Layer (OBC-NCL) – 27% of seats in every course.
o OBCs should be listed in the current updated central list of OBCs
(http://www.ncbc.nic.in).
o OBCs present in the state list but not covered in the central list of OBCs
(as per the list in http://www.ncbc.nic.in) are NOT eligible to claim the
reservation.
o The criteria for Non-Creamy Layer (OBC-NCL) will be as per the
notification of Government of India.
• Candidates belonging to the creamy layer of OBC are NOT entitled for
reservation. Such candidates are treated as belonging to the general (GEN),
i.e. unreserved category, and they will be eligible only for the OPEN seats –
the seats for which all candidates are eligible.
• Scheduled Caste (SC) – 15% of seats in every course.
• Scheduled Tribe (ST) – 7.5% of seats in every course.
o The benefit of reservation will be given only to those castes and tribes that
are mentioned in the respective central list of corresponding states
published by the Government of India (websites:
https://socialjustice.gov.in) and https://ncst.nic.in).
o Persons with Disability (PwD) with at least 40% impairment – 5% seats
in each of OPEN, GEN-EWS, OBC-NCL, SC, and ST category seats
(https://depwd.gov.in/acts/).
o Candidates with at least 40% impairment irrespective of the type of
disability i.e. locomotor, visual or SEVERE dyslexic shall be eligible for
the benefits of PwD sub-category.
o Leprosy-cured candidates who are otherwise fit to pursue the courses are
also included in PwD sub-category.
© JEE (Advanced) 2025 – Information Brochure
8
• Candidates belonging to the GEN-EWS, OBC-NCL, SC, ST, and PwD
categories/sub-categories will be declared as qualified on the basis of a
relaxed criterion (see Clause 22: RANK LISTS).
The category of a candidate as entered in the database, which will be made
available by the JEE Apex Board [which conducts the JEE (Main) 2025
examination], will be final and shall remain the same in JEE (Advanced) 2025
examination. Requests for change of category will NOT be entertained.
Candidates must note that the benefit of reservation will be given to them subject
to verification of documents (and an additional physical verification at one of the
IITs for candidates belonging to PwD category, as provided below in Clause 15).
If it is discovered at any stage that a candidate has used a false / fake / incorrect
document, or has furnished false, incorrect or incomplete information, in order to
avail the benefit of reservation, then such a candidate shall be excluded from all
admission processes. In case such a candidate has already been given admission,
the admission shall stand cancelled.